in this lesson i want to explore public
and private endpoints
for many services in azure and i'm going
to take a storage account as an example
by default for our interactions
with this service we have a public
endpoint
that means it's an address that i can
communicate to
from the internet it's internet routable
now obviously i can also communicate it
from services in a virtual network they
have that same internet connectivity
but the address itself is public it's
internet routable i can get to it from
really anywhere
now that doesn't mean anyone can talk to
it i still have to authenticate to
nearly every type of service this could
be using azure id integration it might
be using some kind of shared access
signature
it's going to vary depending on the
exact service we're actually leveraging
additionally many services
for this public endpoint have the idea
of a service
firewall from that i could say well only
certain ip addresses are allowed to
communicate to me maybe it's the gateway
for my on-premises network
but additionally if i think about well i
have a virtual network
we have this broken up into various
subnets so let's say subnet one
one of the things i can also do is i can
make this subnet a known entity
to services through something called a
service
endpoint
and i can create service endpoints for
different services storage sql whatever
that may be
and then on the firewall i can say well
i'm going to allow in only traffic
coming from subnet one
so now services in subnet one but only
in subnet one could communicate to that
public endpoint but it's still a public
endpoint
but i'm locking it down so i can only
use it from things
in that particular subnet
and we can see this
if we go and look at something like a
storage account but again this is
consistent across many types of service
what i can see here is i'm looking at
the networking element of the security
and i could say well enabled from
selected virtual networks
and ip addresses
and i could then add particular ranges
of ip addresses by just typing them in
or
i can say well i want to enable existing
or add a new virtual network
if i say add an existing well i'll see
all the virtual networks available to me
and then i could go ahead
and pick a particular subnet
and it will show me i already went ahead
and added the service endpoint so it's a
known subnet
to the firewall to allow communication
if it doesn't have a service endpoint
hey it can go ahead in a single step add
it for me
so that's how i can lock down that idea
of the public endpoint to a particular
service
but what about if i don't want that
the other item we can add
is something called a private endpoint
so with a private endpoint
it's an ip address within a subnet we
specify so just like a regular network
interface card for a virtual machine
think of it as really a network
interface is created and attached to our
subnet
so now there's a private endpoint let's
say private endpoint one
private endpoint one
represents a connection directly to a
specific instance of the service let's
say it's storage account one
so it's only to that specific storage
account
so then what i could do is well i can
communicate to that private endpoint
from things in the subnet in the virtual
network from connected virtual networks
i could be a completely different v-net
v-net2 that has a peering connection
i could even be connected from
on-premises network
and maybe i'm connected over a
site-to-site vpn
maybe i'm using express route private
peering but i have an ip path to that ip
address that represents this specific
instance of a service and i create
private endpoints to storage to
databases to many even app services many
types of service support this
there is a special dns configuration
required
that now the name for this service
points to this
private endpoint ip address via an alias
and that can be handled automatically
through azure private dns
but now i have this private endpoint
that lets me talk to the service
directly and if required
i could now go ahead
and turn off the public endpoint so now
i would only communicate to it by the
private endpoint
so that's what these are i have these
different types of service if i looked
at my storage account again for a second
we can see that
i can go back up to my networking and
look at private
endpoint connections
and all i do is i add it i say i want to
add a new private endpoint
i would give it a certain name
i would say the region i'm creating the
private endpoint resource into
so i'm just going to do south central
if it's storage remember there are
different types of service in storage i
have blob files queue so i'll tell it
which one
say blob
i said it which virtual network i have
to pick a particular subnet
and then notice is offering
hey i'll integrate with azure private
dns zones which will create the record
to point to the ip address of this
now as you saw i already went ahead and
created a private endpoint
we can see it created it in a particular
virtual network and subnet over here
and if i was to go and look at that
and look at my connected devices we'll
actually see that network interface
that represent it so now when i talk to
10.10.0.4 via the special dns name i
still need to use the dns name because
this is probably going to be encrypted
communications so i need the certificate
to match the name i'm talking to
but it will resolve to that 10.10.0.4
so now when i talk to it i'm talking to
it via the private endpoint instead of
the public endpoint
so those are the difference between an
internet facing public endpoint and an
internal ip address from my subnet ip
space
for a private endpoint